content/pages/projects.md, before:

Title:          		Projects
Date:           		2018/08/01 20:00
Slug:           		projects
internal_links:         <!--<code><a href="/projects.html#Running">#Running</a></code> --> <code><a href="/projects.html#ListOfProjects">#List of Projects</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#Work">#Work</a></code> <!-- <code><a href="/projects.html#Paused">#Paused</a></code> --> <!--<code><a href="/projects.html#Upcoming">#Upcoming</a></code>--> <code><a href="/projects.html#InQueue">#In Queue</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#IdeasAndSketches">#IdeasAndSketches</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#CommunityBasedResearchAndDevelopment">#Community based Research</a></code>
projects_paused:        project_0055| project_0059| project_0056| project_0049
<!-- projects_thebigpicture: project_0060 -->
<!-- TODO: projects_running:       project_0061| project_0060| project_0058| project_0055 -->
<!-- TODO: projects_paused:        project_0059| project_0056| project_0049 -->
<!-- TODO: projects_paused:        project_0061| project_0060| project_0058| project_0055| project_0059| project_0056| project_0049 -->



<!--
<h2 id="Upcoming">Upcoming</h2>

<p>
None.
</p>
-->

<h2 id="InQueue">In Queue</h2>
Stuff for which I'm currently doing pre-research, writting work concepts, project- and funding proposals, organizing funding or already have funding but no time to work on and finally projects which have to be more private, for the moment, like my patent application.

<ul>
<li>
	Scary<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Scary is the idea for a Pluggable Transport for Tor Bridges. It calls Scary, since the idea is scary :). It bases on some concepts of quantum mechanics.
	</font>
</li>
<!-- TODO
<li>
	Patent application 01: Free Pony<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Already for a longer time, I have stuff for a patent application which I want to let it happen, now.<br />
		This is a private project until patent application will be finished. After this, I want to make it public for beeing used freely for non-commercial aims.
	</font>
</li>
-->
<!-- TODO
<li>
	Patent application 02: Flying Pony<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Already for a longer time, I have stuff for a patent application which I want to let it happen, now.<br />
		This is a private project until patent application will be finished. After this, I want to make it public for beeing used freely for non-commercial aims.
	</font>
</li>
-->
</ul>


<hr />
<h2 id="IdeasAndSketches">Ideas and Sketches</h2>
Raw and crazy stuff from brainstorming. :)

<p>
None.
</p>


<!--
<hr />
<h2 id="Past">Past</h2>
Past projects.

<p>
None.
</p>
-->


<hr />
<h2 id="CommunityBasedResearchAndDevelopment">Community based Research & Development</h2>
I see myself as Research Scientist funded by the community for working for the community. If you have wishes or ideas for projects which fit to my areas of knowledge, please feel free to <a href="/contact.html#Information">contact</a> me.

Commit message:

New Project Post: Graph Property Driven Information Exchange in Distributed Networks

content/pages/projects.md, after:

Title:          		Projects
Date:           		2018/08/01 20:00
Slug:           		projects
internal_links:         <!--<code><a href="/projects.html#Running">#Running</a></code> --> <code><a href="/projects.html#TheBigPicture">#The Big Picture</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#ListOfProjects">#List of Projects</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#Work">#Work</a></code> <!-- <code><a href="/projects.html#Paused">#Paused</a></code> --> <!--<code><a href="/projects.html#Upcoming">#Upcoming</a></code>--> <code><a href="/projects.html#InQueue">#In Queue</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#IdeasAndSketches">#IdeasAndSketches</a></code> <code><a href="/projects.html#CommunityBasedResearchAndDevelopment">#Community based Research</a></code>
projects_paused:        project_0055| project_0059| project_0056| project_0049
projects_thebigpicture: project_0100
projects_thebigpicture_info: Currently, my main research focus is set to the following big research topic(s), cut in several related projects (see List of Projects). For some of them, I'm seeking for funding, at the moment.
projects_thebigpicture_funding: If you are interested in supporting my work as an investor, check out the <a href="/projects.html#ListOfProjects" title="List of Projects">List of Projects</a> below and have a look at the <a href="/funding.html#PrivateInvestors" title="Private Investors Information" target="_blank">Private Investors Information</a>.
<!-- TODO: projects_running:       project_0061| project_0060| project_0058| project_0055 -->
<!-- TODO: projects_paused:        project_0059| project_0056| project_0049 -->
<!-- TODO: projects_paused:        project_0061| project_0060| project_0058| project_0055| project_0059| project_0056| project_0049 -->



<!--
<h2 id="Upcoming">Upcoming</h2>

<p>
None.
</p>
-->

<h2 id="InQueue">In Queue</h2>
Stuff for which I'm currently doing pre-research, writting work concepts, project- and funding proposals, organizing funding or already have funding but no time to work on and finally projects which have to be more private, for the moment, like my patent application.

<ul>
<li>
	Scary<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Scary is the idea for a Pluggable Transport for Tor Bridges. It calls Scary, since the idea is scary :). It bases on some concepts of quantum mechanics.
	</font>
</li>
<!-- TODO
<li>
	Patent application 01: Free Pony<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Already for a longer time, I have stuff for a patent application which I want to let it happen, now.<br />
		This is a private project until patent application will be finished. After this, I want to make it public for beeing used freely for non-commercial aims.
	</font>
</li>
-->
<!-- TODO
<li>
	Patent application 02: Flying Pony<br />
	<font style="font-size:14px;">
		Already for a longer time, I have stuff for a patent application which I want to let it happen, now.<br />
		This is a private project until patent application will be finished. After this, I want to make it public for beeing used freely for non-commercial aims.
	</font>
</li>
-->
</ul>


<hr />
<h2 id="IdeasAndSketches">Ideas and Sketches</h2>
Raw and crazy stuff from brainstorming. :)

<p>
None.
</p>


<!--
<hr />
<h2 id="Past">Past</h2>
Past projects.

<p>
None.
</p>
-->


<hr />
<h2 id="CommunityBasedResearchAndDevelopment">Community based Research & Development</h2>
I see myself as Research Scientist funded by the community for working for the community. If you have wishes or ideas for projects which fit to my areas of knowledge, please feel free to <a href="/contact.html#Information">contact</a> me.
